Before it was very easy to always say,
well, I will never be able to do this
because insert skill issue. We're
realizing that even if you have the
skills at your fingertips, the thing
that matters is agency. I don't think
agency is very evenly distributed in the
world.
>> Do you have a piece of advice for
someone that wants to develop this
within themselves?
>> I tell this to myself. Could you drive
notion like it's stolen? One day you
wake up and you realize the world is
made up by people no smarter than you.
It just really awakens you to the idea
that you can just change things. If you
think about your job a couple years ago,
what's most changed?
>> The first 10% of every project are now
free. It takes almost no effort to now
build the first version of a startup.
>> Taste comes up a lot now.
>> Taste actually means you're able to run
a virtual machine in your head where
given an idea, you can predict for a
certain inroup whether they're going to
like it or not. You just have to do
reps. It's almost like training a model.
>> What do you think matters to building a
successful product?
>> All the great products have something
tiny that is a superpower. one tiny core
that is so exceptionally good. One of
the biggest pitfalls is if you get into
the loop of if I just add one more thing
to the product, it will be finally
great. That never works.
>> Give this hot take on universal basic
income.
>> We already have universal basic income.
It's called knowledge work.
Today my guest is Max Shying. Max is a
hard person to describe. He was a
product manager at Google. He ran the
design team at Heroku. He was a design
leader and an engineer at GitHub under
Natt Freriedman. He's also a two-time
founder and is now head of product at
Notion. He is one of the most successful
AI forward product leaders out there and
as you'll soon see, one of the deepest
thinkers on how AI impacts how we build
and how we use software. Before we get
into it, don't forget to check out
lennisproass.com
for an insane set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you Max
Shing.
Max, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> I am so excited to have you here. I feel
like there's this quote I think about
when I think about you uh and you being
on this podcast. It comes from the
Bible. And just paraphrasing, the quote
is, "I was made for such a time as
this." I feel like there's this all this
talk about roles merging, designers
becoming PMs, engineers, everyone's the
same. The ven diagrams collapsing.
You've been that for a long time. It's
like hard to even describe what you are
and what you've done. You've done all
the things. So, I feel like you have
such a unique insight into where things
are heading. I want to start with just
kind of this broad question. What have
you seen about where things are going
for product teams, for product building,
as AI becomes more powerful, as we
integrate it more into our workflows?
And I ask you this because I've heard
from so many people at Notion that you
are the reason that designers are
shipping code, PMs are shipping code.
You're not just living in the future,
you're like pushing the whole team and
company to live in the future. And so,
so coming back to the question just like
what are you seeing about where things
are going? What will change? What will
people realize in the next few months,
years that you're already seeing?
>> Well, first of all, when you said a
quote from the Bible, I was
I was very curious where this was going
to
>> It's the first time I've coded the Bible
on this podcast. I think I wouldn't take
credit for the designers at notion and
PMs at notion now code. I think that
would have probably happened anyways.
But I can tell you the origin story of
it which is when I joined notion we were
building a lot of chat interfaces and we
were designing the chat interfaces in
Figma
and my there's this great talk by Brett
Victor uh stop drawing dead fish
which essentially is I I mean the the
static image of a chat is basically the
dead fish here. uh you have to feel the
the AI to some degree. And so, uh, two
designers, myself, just put together the
worst possible playground you could
think of of a small codebase that is
very LLM friendly, used the tools that
LLMs are very good at using. And then we
moved all of our prototyping for the
specifically the chat interfaces to
that. And just to understand this
playground concept, uh, essentially this
is an idea of people work within this
separate kind of area with AI tools
versus like their whole notion code base
making it really easy to get started and
try stuff.
>> Yes. And that was the first version. It
sort of aligned with model capabilities
at the time. We don't always use maybe
at notion sort of the the main codebase
is not always the most agent uh friendly
because uh iterations and a decade of of
of patterns. And so we optimized for
okay how can we make this the least
scary and most oneshotable so that
people would just have to overcome this
sort of oh I the fear of the terminal
but then it just becomes chatting and uh
we recreated a bunch of the patterns and
UIs that exist in that playground now
the good news is that's just to get
people on the treadmill because as model
capabilities get better now we have the
same designers npms also just
contributing to the production codebase
to a lesser degree of course, but like
you can see where the trend is headed as
model capabilities get better. The the
the amount of work that you can do is uh
obviously going to increase
exponentially. This episode is brought
to you by our season's presenting
sponsor work OS. What do OpenAI,
Anthropic, Cursor, Versell, Replet,
Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of other
winning companies all have in common?
They are all powered by work OS. If
you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single signon, skim, arback,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. Work OS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Literally,
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket ends up
working with work OS. And that's because
they are the best. Whether you are a
seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unblocking growth. It's
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack where
they have actual engineers waiting to
answer your questions. Workos allows you
to build faster with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
Maybe give us a sense of where things
are today like how much are designers
shipping stuff PMs and then just what do
you see about where things might be
heading seeing all this actually
happening in at a company like notion? I
I feel so uncomfortable predicting the
future in terms of where things are
heading because well predicting
exponentials is really hard. But I'll
take the stab at it is very very useful
for designers to move from
manipulating Figma documents into code.
That has always been useful. I've always
been camp designers should code. uh at a
in a previous life I I led design and
product at GitHub and GitHub designers
before LLMs contributed to to GitHub I
think in the top contributors to to
GitHub itself like 10% were designers
right now processes are sort of breaking
uh one is we have designers who now
mostly code and prototype in in code and
then they are asked by other teams uh in
marketing and so on to reverse engineer
that in Figma because they use that to
create assets for videos and so on and
so obviously that is kind of silly right
that seems like busy work on the pushing
to production I think it's a spectrum
obviously small changes styling tweaks
and so on it's a given that you can just
do that now I do have a general sort of
maybe issue with vibe coding uh in the
sense of I I don't feel like the quality
of software has increased all that much
in the last 12 months I think the maybe
the amount of software has, but it's
very very hard to find software that is
is reliable. And so the way we see it is
it's not so much about pushing to
production and having designers deploy.
It's about them thinking and designing
in the medium that will actually end up
being the real thing once engineering
takes it over.
>> There's all this talk about designers
should be shipping code, PM should be
shipping code. And then there's the flip
side of because engineers can move so
fast. There's so much more happening.
Things are moving all the time,
designers and PMs are squeezed more and
more because it's hard to stay on top of
all these things that are constantly
shipping. And so maybe it doesn't
actually make sense for designers and
PMs to be spending time coding and
instead their time is better spent
making sure things are moving in a
direction that makes sense for the
business. It's cohesive. What's your
thoughts on just that balance? I
actually don't care at all whether
designers write code that lands in
production. The reason I like thinking
in code is
because it forces you to consider the
medium. If then all of that gets thrown
out, great. So, for example, I think the
two extremes would be if a PM or a
designer knows how to tweak with pick
your favorite, they're all the same,
codeex, cloud code, whatever. If they
know how to tweak small details of the
UI, but they don't understand how an
agent loop works, I would much rather
take the designer or PM that deeply has
an affinity for understanding how agent
loops work and can design those than
someone who can sort of write
traditional software uh and and tweak
styles. And that's really hard because I
think the only way that you can actually
get to understanding agent loops is if
you build them in the material that
they're made of, which is currently
code, and increasingly so if you look at
all the coding harnesses, basically the
operating systems of the '90s, right?
Um, and so I think that's why I care
that people code, not because of the
utility of shipping to production, but
because it forces you to really
interrogate the material that you're
designing with. So, it's more the
prototyping use cases than we're just
going to be shipping more features
because because we can. It tends to be
that once you awaken someone to a new
material that at some point they also
blur the lines and then write production
code. But I think it's really important
not to forget that the reason why is to
to become a master of the material, not
a sort of cog in the delivery mechanism
for the idea.
>> That is really interesting. What do you
find is key to people being successful
in this new world? Like, you know,
there's a lot of designers, a lot of PMs
at Notion. What do you find is
separating the ones that are thriving
and will do well in this coming future
versus ones that may fall behind? I
suspect that this is also something that
has always been the case and we would
just categorize this as founder versus
not and do you start a startup versus
not, which is agency. I think before
it was very easy to always say well I
will never be able to do this because
insert skill issue and I think we're
realizing that even if you have the
skills at your fingertips because now I
don't know an AGI adjacent model helps
you uh the thing that matters is agency
and I don't think agency is very evenly
distributed in the world and uh I think
people who have true agency and they
understand that the world around them is
malleable will do great and the folks
who stick to what tell me really what
does it mean to be a PM what does it
mean to be a designer and like what's my
job as an engineer I think that will be
much harder and yeah cultivate agency I
think that's the that's the thing is
there an example of someone using agency
some a good example at notion of someone
just leaning into that and doing and
maybe shipping something changing the
way something was happening at notion
just to give us a like, oh wow, I see
what you're talking about.
>> Ninos are, this was surprising to me,
especially on the design team, way above
average agency compared to other places
that that I've worked at.
>> And Ninos, by the way, are notion
employees.
>> Yes. Sorry. Once you're boil I would say
one example would be someone like Brian
Leven, who you should probably have on
the podcast at some point.
>> He was on uh our sister podcast, How I
AI. We'll link to that episode.
>> Ah, there we go. Yeah, you should cut
this one short and have him on. Um, I
think the way I would describe it is,
and I I I tell this to myself as well,
which is like, okay, do you drive notion
like it's stolen, which is, you know,
we're not the founders where, you know,
coming in after there was already insane
product market fit, but you can still
contribute to the company in a way that
you feel agency and you're not sort of
just like it's what's your role. And so
Brian obviously already blurs
engineering and design, but he also is
probably our number one recruiter uh in
terms of hey, this is what the org
needs. I'm going to go out and talk to
people and find someone. And I think
that is a thing that sort of just
demonstrates it's it's out of the
day-to-day and it demonstrates that, you
know, I want to just affect change. I
don't care how it happens, right?
>> Um Eric Lou is another one. the fact
that he went from sort of writing a lot
of strategy docs to he asked me at some
point he's like hey look at some point
in the future if you started a startup
would you hire me and I said well not in
the first 10 I don't need a product
manager he's like oh okay I'm going to
work on the skills so that you would
hire me in the first five and that led
to first spending more time in Figma
instead of you know writing long PRDs
and now it's just why do I have to do
the Figma thing can can't I just build
the prototype and at least show you what
I think and do the thinking in there
right So that those are just sort of
signs of high agency of I'm going to
change the role to to to how I think it
should be.
>> Something you mentioned earlier which I
love this idea of just rethinking what
is what is this role of engineer and
what might it what should it be if if we
didn't have this kind of meme already
for it. I wonder what we lose as these
roles start to merge. We used to have
this clear engineer, product manager,
designer. And as people start to, you
know, as you talk about malleable
software, we'll come back to this, but
like malleable roles almost, there's
something we lose like clear career
paths and design consistency, things
like that. I think if we're not careful,
we will lose specialists. And so the way
I would describe this is I sometimes
like to think about software in terms of
physical metaphors, right? And physical
metaphors somehow make it so much
clearer what a prototype is versus what
an engineered thing is. And if you and I
were to build a hardware startup, well,
we would make the first enclosures and
prototypes with 3D printing. And you
would see all the layer lines. It would
be very very obvious to you that this is
not a thing that you should just give to
to to people to pay for. And then
there's a long windy road all the way to
the end where at some point if you're
very lucky you get to manufacture that
product for I don't know 100 million
people. And so then the engineering is
actually the how do I optimize the
factory so that we have enough yield and
so that we have enough precision. And
that to me I think is very absent right
now from most of the discourse in
software which is it's all about how
many tokens can we spend and how many
features can we ship. I'm like okay but
where's the engineering part and the
engineering part is the you make sure
that this thing works for 100 million
people for a billion people and on the
design side I think there is the yes
anyone can now very quickly take a
design system off the shelf build a very
usable user interface get to the core of
what's really important but where is the
delight in craft and so I think we have
to make sure that we in this sort of
merging of roles don't lose the
specialists on the on the edges and
Yeah, I I would say that's something we
could it would potentially be be be sad
if we lost it.
>> I want to come back to this agency piece
because I feel like people hear this
word a lot on this podcast. Yes, agency.
For someone that wants to build this
within themselves or even just
understand, do I have agency? I don't
know. I think I do. I imagine everyone
listening is like, yes, I am huge. I
have huge agency. I'm such an agent. I
can do I I'll do what needs to be done.
Do you have a piece of advice for
someone that wants to develop this
within themselves?
>> Partially the reason why I'm in software
is the thing that I care most about is
the Steve Jobs quote. One day you wake
up and you realize the world is made up
by people no smarter than you. And there
are basically people who realize this by
themselves or they have an amazing
teacher early on in their life that
encourages this. And the the biggest
throughine I've found is making. I think
if you tinker and if you make things,
then you are now on this treadmill of
just
um creating and then you're like, "Oh,
it's actually not that hard to learn how
to make that chair in my office or let
me tweak it a little bit or maybe I
don't know. It's like a home-cooked meal
is a form of tinkering, ironically,
right?" Uh and I think the more you can
do that in life, I think actually sort
of making things is the innately human
like sort of tool making, creating art
and so on. So just do that versus I
think when a lot of people hear agency,
they think of themselves as they're in
this big machine and they're like, "Oh,
okay. I'm going to circumvent my
terrible boss or manager or whatever so
that I get X, Y, and Z." It's like, no,
no, just start by making things. And
usually when you get better at making
things, at some point people pay
attention and it just really awakens you
to the idea that you can just change
things. I love this. Uh there's this
meme on Twitter, you could just do
things. Uh like there's all I I love
this version of it. You could just
change things. Um which is a is a good
segue to something you've been a big I
don't know advocate of and uh proponent
of this idea of malleable software.
Something you mentioned earlier. It
feels like something that wasn't
actually possible and now is like, okay,
I could see exactly what you're talking
about now. Like you've been on on this
from before the AI revolution. Talk
about just this idea. Malleable
software, why you think it's so
important, what you think people need to
be thinking about here.
>> Malleable software is
the idea that software works closer to
the interest of the people that use it
than the interest of the corporation
that makes it. Maybe that's how I'd
frame it. And in particular, like I
don't want to use software that is
specifically just designed by the ivory
tower in Certino. And I say this as a
huge Apple fanboy, but
imagine you lived in an environment
where you do not get to rearrange your
living room and the kitchen has to be
exactly set up the way that someone else
decided. We would not take that, right?
But that is kind of the world that we
have in software right now where we have
this world of apps and apps are like
this very every layer is glued together
of like the user interface, the data
ownership and so on. It's like this
little square on your phone and the
moment you're like okay this is a really
great app but I just want to change a
little bit that is usually not possible
right the behavior. uh you have the flip
side which is you could run your own
Linux distribution and go that way and I
think then what happens is you realize
oh okay I like the malleability but I
also have other things to do and I don't
always want to start from scratch and
and figure out why the the trackpad
doesn't work and so to me it just comes
back down to do you have ownership over
your computing
life and I think increasingly we don't
now you brought this up presumably
because I think you may have sort of not
thought about malleable software too
much before I but now you're like making
your own tools maybe for podcast
recording for prepping for shows or or I
don't know whatever um there's a myriad
examples and people are awakening to
this idea of like oh I can just make
tools and that is a form of malleable
software but it has to be built on top
of a platform or an operating system
that encourages this because otherwise
we're just doing individual like
everybody has their own individual
little tool and um I don't know I I like
working with people and I like communal
tools and I don't know this is a thing
that the folks at Incan Switch are are
obviously as sort of at the forefront I
get to work with Jeffrey Lit every
single day now that uh spend a lot of
time thinking about how would we make
software more malleable so that we feel
more ownership over it without going
back a long time and not having
real-time collaboration and sort of the
security aspects and so on. I really
love and I just want to make sure we
highlight this idea you're sharing. It's
something that I learned also from Brian
Chesky at Airbnb. This idea that just
you can change things that the things
around you are just made by other people
that may not actually be smarter than
you. And it's just this really
empowering thing to always think about
that things can change. This isn't the
way things have to be forever. people
humans made this thing like humans made
this uh this phone and and you could and
there there are better approaches that
other humans that you can that you can
come up with other people will come up
with. What I think about as I think
about this is there's a video that you
uh pinned to your Twitter profile that
will link to which I think is DA Roms.
Is that who that who the person is?
Okay. So, he's walking around. He's just
criticizing all these designed chairs.
uh talk about what that video is trying
to why why you pin that to your your
profile.
>> Uh there's many reasons. One is um I
think maybe the only thing that I have
in common with this very accomplished
person is that we're both German. And so
sometimes I joke that I also aspire to
disapprovingly just point at things with
my walking stick and say, "This isn't
good enough. This isn't good enough."
Um, the reason why is because I think if
you speak German, this is one of the
funniest uh clips that I've ever I just
die laughing every single time. I'm
actually curious how you think about how
it ties to
malleable software because the main
reason why I use that as a clip of
reference is I'm very much in the camp
of design should be first useful and
then beautiful. And I think a lot of the
pieces there are predominantly things
that you put in a museum for display and
if you try to sit on them you'd be like
what is this nonsense?
>> What I felt there is just like you see
all like you would think it was Frank
Giri and like all these famous designers
pieces put up in a museum and I think to
mo to most people be like wow this is so
incredible and beautiful. Like you see
somebody that has a status and a
reputation and you assume this is great.
And I love that he breaks that veil of
like no this is so stupid. What is this?
What is this bunch of cabinets tied
together? Doesn't make any sense.
>> Yeah, he said that's for that cabinet. I
think he says something like it is
neither orderly nor properly chaotic.
Um I understand the connection. Now the
timeless way of building and Stuart
Bran's uh sort of how buildings learn I
think idea is also that it's very likely
that the best homes for you are not
actually built by an architect. They are
the thing that over a long time adapt to
exactly how you would love to lead your
life and they learn over time versus you
know immediately. And so then that is
obviously a very costly version of
malleability right if you have to rip
out a wall or whatever. But um I I think
the
main thing that deer Rams points out
there is it should be a thing that's
useful. And a good way to figure out how
something is useful is if you can change
it and tweak it. Makes sense.
>> It all connects. It all connects.
>> I get it now.
>> There we go. I won't link to it. It's
really funny to watch. I wish I wish I
understood the German. I want to come
back to this idea of uh malleable
software from a perspective of SAS and
the SAS apocalypse. There's all this
talk about we will not need SAS tools
any longer. We will build all our own
tools. We don't need Salesforce. You
know, I imagine some people are like, we
don't need notion. I'm going to build my
own notion. You have a hot take there.
Talk about what you think is going to
happen. If you just think about what
SAS, the problem is the moment you have
an an acronym, it it means a lot of very
specific things. And if you're going to
say, hey, is this type of SAS that we've
built in the 2010s
just as relevant as it was in the 2010s?
The answer would be it would be silly to
say, no, nothing's going to change.
It'll be the same because I think you
can sort of say a lot of SAS in the
2010s was a very very fancy form around
a spreadsheet or something more generic.
And the thing it did is it just guided
people in the right direction to fill
out that form as in it is less malleable
than a spreadsheet. And that sort of is
the value. The as a service part is I
think the thing that actually matters
which is I don't think most people
actually want to maintain the full stack
of software. And so whenever I see
someone and I am I am someone here uh
say oh I just rebuilt this piece of
software. I've tried rebuilding notion
in a weekend for myself uh just to you
know push at the edges of frustration uh
frustrating things. I don't think people
want that. I think for the most part
it's nice if you can just People don't
want to go hunting either. They just
want to go to Costco and have the the
the the steak in in a styrofoam
packaging and pretend that the that it
wasn't uh hunting or or you know an
animal in the first place. I think with
software it's like it's a it's like a um
Brett Taylor says this too. Software is
like a garden. you need to tend to it
and the the the thing you pay for in the
as a service is the maintenance and a
bunch of specialists thinking really
hard about a problem and so I don't
think that's going away. What I would
probably say is that tools will become
more general. I mean I'm obviously
biased. I work at Notion. I'd like
notion and I consider notion to be
fairly malleable. Not enough. I'm I
think it should become more malleable.
We we internally joked Joanna Stern um a
journalist recently tweeted something
along the lines of oh thanks to notionai
I finally understand and use notion. I
don't know what that says about notion.
And to me this is a great example of
notion wasn't SAS in the traditional
way. It's kind of hard to get started
but because of AI now people can sort of
they have a a tutor essentially and can
build more things. And so my I suspect
that software will go more back into the
'9s of general tools, word processor,
spreadsheet, FileMaker Pro, uh that kind
of thing, but those will still be as a
service. And then you'll still have
specialized tools around security and
and so on of just people who go the
extra mile to really solve a user
problem. So I think to some degree the
SAS apocalypse is greatly exaggerated.
At the same time, are things going to
stay the same? Of course not. Like why
would they?
>> I completely agree. I think people think
about just the okay I'll create
something that's pretty cool and close
and then they don't think about exactly
as described like I have to maintain
this thing forever and I have to keep
adding features taking people's
feedback. One of the funniest things
that I see again and again uh uh I just
had the head of product for cloud code
on the podcast Catwoo and she talks
about how Slack is basically the OS for
anthropic. Everything runs through Slack
and you think of all companies that
would just like we don't we'll just
build our own what are we doing with
Slack? like no they're just they're
they're using Slack like crazy and I
think that's just one example of like
nobody wants to rebuild a tool like
Slack and Workday I think is another
example. I I don't know I think it's
maybe even more unique in the US but one
of the uh great things about the US is
actually specialization. It's that I get
to spend dollars on something like
notion because it's not that expensive
compared to me building it and then uh
why would I waste my time? I I want to
do other things with my life, right? So
I don't know that's not going to go
away.
>> Yeah. Uh I agree like people anthropic
there their time is better spent
building AGI than trying to build better
Slack.
>> I also love the Slack example because uh
I mean this is a there's this graphic of
what it takes to deliver a notification
in Slack the sort of decision flowchart.
And that is just something that you only
get to when you have real users, real
scale and decades of just yep we
understand the customer. I want to come
back to how product building is changing
and how it's different. I know you've
done a lot of different jobs but like
your job I don't know a couple years
ago. What's most
changed like what part is most not
something you don't do anymore or you do
a lot more of now with AI emerging as a
big part of your process? I think the
first 10% of every project are now free.
That's how I would describe it. So there
is no point for most things to for
example write a I don't know I the thing
is has changed. I've never really been
great at this. Uh but like there's no
point in writing a PRD if you can just
do the janky version and and sort of you
know do the uh here's the demo of like
what I think we should build. So the
first 10% that's so interesting just
that that's such an interesting way to
frame it idea there's just like the
thinking through of it you can go a lot
further really quickly. Uh yes and in if
you look at uh a lot of the the it takes
almost no effort to now build sort of
the first version of a startup right or
like the first Z version 0.8 and then I
think the last or or maybe maybe even if
you're generous and say the first 90%
are now done the last 10% are still
actually 90%. That's always the hardest.
So I think uh it's cheaper to just
explore a lot of paths. You can now
afford to say I'm going to send off 10
agents to explore 10 different things
and then see if I was right. We used to
say this at at GitHub in in our product
reviews a lot which is demos not memos
and then we would say give me something
to react to which is okay if you're
going to write a PR just write the
change log or the blog post that a user
would have would read. Now it's much
easier to give people something to react
to as in yeah here's the version of the
product and it's like okay what if we
did it this other way oh yeah here's
that version and so I think that is just
amazing it it sort of builds in iter
iteration uh into the product much
earlier right like waterfall is sort of
why why bother what do you think is the
next kind of leap or shift in how we
build what do you what are you seeing is
like okay this is now the new thing
that's emerging that is going to change
how we operate
>> I'm very conflicted on this because On
one hand, I do want to like I believe
the never bet against plain text. So, a
famous forum post at some point. Plain
text markdown. Like it's just such a
durable thing. Code is such a durable
thing. I think that
expressing your thoughts in code is
probably a a really good thing. We can
talk about why. Uh but at the same time,
I'm like, are we really going to just be
chatting back and forth? And so what is
the future of Figma for example is like
a really interesting example to me
because uh on one hand I do see like
sort of a drop in usage of of Figma in
some designers at notion and then others
are like nope these AI tools are
wonderful. I it's very hard for me to
predict of like is direct manipulation
going away because the agent is doing
the direct manipulation. Um the other
thing that I'm curious about is there is
this
automation versus augmentation fork. If
I look at the really really fast models
like spark and I forget what the
anthropic variant is where
>> haiku
>> uh no sorry it's it's you still get a
smart one. It's opus but like opus fast
or something just yeah like
>> you very quickly run up a bill of like
$3,000 a day. Uh but um the speed of
inference really changes things. If the
inference is slow, then you're queuing
up a bunch of jobs and then you're
walking around the building thinking
about other things and then come back
and review versus if it's nearly
instant. Are you still going to do this?
Is this sort of multitasking the
frenetic kind of thing that we currently
have going on actually the thing that is
sort of you know gives us flow state?
Well, no. But if the inference becomes
instant, do we get back to direct
manipulation? Right? Do you do you
instantly sort of like mold the clay
that is the code? Right? Um I I I don't
know. I think it depends on model
capabilities, which is do people is
there a saturation on intelligence or
not? Uh the analogy I like to give is a
retina display, which is after I can't
see the pixels, I can't see the pixels.
I don't need you to make them smaller.
Is it not the same for a lot of
cognitive tasks which is at some sort of
level of intelligence I don't need more
and I instead I want a different
modality and faster. So I don't know
those things I'm excited about.
Interesting. So that last point you're
making is it's like smarter models will
not significantly impact how teams
operate because they've gotten so good
and it's other blockers now like like UX
essentially.
>> Yeah. I think in general I'm actually
very curious. uh the labs sort of
operate I feel like they operate uh
under the assumption that people will
always want the smartest model like you
want the frontier model and I think for
certain domains that is probably true I
think if we're going to do cancer
research and so on and if we're going to
spend millions of dollars on something
that's likely true but that's not how we
run companies either right like we don't
have a PhD for everything and so I I I
think for a lot of knowledge work tasks
probably sometime we'll get to good
And once you get to good enough, then
you can optimize other things like they
run locally, they're cheaper, they're
faster. And I don't know why the
absolute intelligence thing doesn't
interest me very much. I I think society
is largely not capped by intelligence.
Uh I think Tyler Cowan says something
similar. I don't want to put words in
his mouth. Um, and so I'm much more
interested in the exoskeleton
versus the I have a god in a box in some
data center center somewhere and we're
all sort of, you know, twiddling our
thumbs.
>> Mhm. I have I have a bunch of questions
along these lines. So interesting. You
talked about how this 1pm is the highest
token spender. This is across all of
Notion.
>> Uh, I would assume this may not include
our automatic security uh, vulnerability
scanning and like bug triaging is like
when
>> Yeah. human kicks off and jobs. Yeah.
Yeah.
>> What's your policy on token spent? Is it
spend as much you want here's a limit
everyone? Do you keep track of
>> given that I don't know what the policy
is? I think it is unlimited. Uh I mean
you can imagine at some point there
would be but uh right now I think it's
just the wrong thing to optimize for.
It's like when something new comes along
it's worth letting people explore.
I do suspect in six to 12 months from
now a lot of companies are going to
actually start asking questions around
RARI
and I think that will be an
uncomfortable conversation for for a lot
of folks
>> in terms of span what are like the
numbers for say Eric or broadly in terms
>> I am the wrong person to ask
>> okay it's just a lot
>> that is just the I don't I would assume
they pale in comparison to the folks at
open eye and anthropic just by the
nature of the work they do and so on but
It is definitely for an individual in
the you know
I don't even want to put numbers in but
like thousands for sure but like maybe
tens of thousands I don't know depends
yeah
>> I think just the fact that you're has
had a product or not on top of that
means that it's just let's not worry
about this let's just see what we can do
and then we'll we'll you know in six
months as you said we'll figure out if
this is ROI positive.
>> Yes that I have the luxury to right now
not care.
>> Yeah I'm sure you know someone's looking
at it. It's not going to be out of
control. Correct. I think there's like
this big, I don't know, milestone of
when does token spend exceed someone's
salary. That's something people talk
about now more and more just like should
that be higher than your salary, should
that be lower? How does that all
connect? Yeah, I think there's a real
danger in sort of making the token spend
the the metric to like
boast about, which is the same as when
people boast about how many lines of
code they've written in a day.
>> Yeah. And I'm like, I
why do you have so many lines of code?
Uh you have I don't know
the largest software projects in the
world have uh
not that many millions of lines of code.
Like why are we why are we bragging
about that? I I don't actually care
about how many tokens someone spends. Um
>> yeah,
>> it's not a metric that's useful.
>> Yeah, such a good point. I know Meta got
got some flack for this recently where
they're trying to create a leaderboard
who's doing the most.
>> To be fair, I do understand why
companies do that which is I am
surprised by how much work it takes to
get people to identify the outer loop of
their work and enlist an agent and build
sort of the I don't know the the term
right now is like factory, right? Like
the software factory for the work that
they do. Uh it is surprising to me how
much proddding you need to do to get
people out of their the way they're used
to working. And so if you're dealing
with tens of thousands of people at the
scale of meta, I have some sympathy for
okay, a good way to do this is just
start a leaderboard and encourage people
to do it. They will find good things and
useful things to do with that as they as
they learn, right? So it's a Yeah,
>> it's such a good point. like you have to
over overindex to change people's
default easy behavior. I'm just going to
do things. I'm just gonna write these
PRDs the way I've always done it. I'm
gonna run the meetings the same the same
way I've done it. I think that makes a
lot of sense. What have you seen
actually work within notion to get
people to significantly change the way
they work? Depends on the role. So roles
that are
perhaps further away from engineering
actually you don't have to convince them
all that much because they're like whoa
I have superpowers now. look at this
amazing thing I've just built because
the the capability gap of what they were
able to do before versus after is so
huge that it it's intoxicating. And then
you have to actually almost do the
opposite which is like yes but do you
understand why we can't merge this PR? I
think on the engineering side something
that uh Simon last talks about a lot is
sort of any manual intervention in code
is kind of bad. you probably did
something wrong in the verifiability
loop and in sort of the software
factory. Uh this excludes obviously
reviewing code, right? Like I am still
very much in camp. You should probably
review more code than put more effort
into reviewing code than you do. Um but
at least on the writing side, every time
there is an intervention, a human
intervention, it should feel a little
bit like a bug. I think that's a good
litmus test for uh how I don't know
agentfilled you are. I want to come back
to the tools that you use. You mentioned
um Figma is kind of trending down within
the design org, which is really
interesting. Is there anything that's
trending up? Anything else that's
trending down in terms of tools in the
tool stack of your team? So, I'm
actually not positive that Figma is
trending down. I think it's more that
there is a there's two camps. Uh I could
totally believe the Jevans paradox,
which is Figma is actually going up and
then of course vibe coding is going up.
like I don't want to create in general I
really really dislike the the rivalry
discourse that exists in in Silicon
Valley which is for anthropic to win
OpenAI needs to lose and vice versa and
like that kind of thing. So I I I don't
want to um perpetuate that with sort of
the Figma versus versus coding. I think
uh the terminal is actually surprising
which is it's initially kind of scary
for people and you could do so much but
now PMs are slowly the once they're in
cloud code or codeex everything is fine
right and I generally encourage them to
not use the guies I I I I encourage them
to use the the the twe because I just
know that over time they're going to be
curious and like pull at other threads
and one day they wake up and they're
like oh I understand more of the
substrate of what how how computers
work.
>> That is so interesting. So the designers
are using the terminal.
>> Yes. Yeah. And then um I I don't know
conductor is another one. They they're
basically just mostly using developer
tools. It's not that different from what
uh developers use.
>> I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies like
Cursor, Ramp, Dualingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever.
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks
including SOCK 2, ISO 27,0001 and HIPPA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant more than ever
before. Trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
AI has completely transformed the work
of a software engineer. Like two years
ago versus today, it's completely
different. Like almost all your code is
now AI. It and we've been talking about
like when will 50% of engineers in the
world be writing 100% AI code? It's
probably like in a year, which is insane
how much that job has changed. Which
role do you think AI transforms
next? Is it marketing? Is it growth? Is
it sales? Is it design? Do you have a
sense of like where things are starting
to really change other than engineering?
>> Okay, this is maybe a hot take and I
actually don't have enough um I I it's
very likely that the labs are like haha
look at this guy. Um my take it's very
clear at least empirically that models
are getting better at coding at some
exponential rate right and I don't think
that's changing
now. I'm not that impressed with the
progress in the any other domain. it
tends to be like I don't think they've
gotten significantly better at writing.
I still very much hate reading
uh sort of AI slop writing but the thing
is software we we uh Andre right like
software is eating the world well if the
cost of software and creating software
and encoding business practices in code
and like I just literally mean the old
like software 1.0 no kind of code then
if that cost is very much going to zero
we will just have a lot more of it and
so I think then in that case it's more
that software engineering will go into
all the other domains not necessarily
that there is sort of some sort of yeah
like um I don't know our folks in HR are
automating a lot of things because now
they don't have to bug an engineering
team to write that code uh and so I
think that's how it's it's going and
like if you look at when the model
companies say, "Oh, we've made great
progress in this other non-coding
domain." I was like, "You just applied
coding principles to this domain, which
is wonderful, but that's what it's
getting better at, right?" And so I
think um I I just think software is
eating the world is going to accelerate.
That is a really interesting take. So
it's basically software just the
acceleration of software eating the
world uh versus it's like it's going to
now do a different kind of job. This
makes me think about the um had a
product for codec said the same thing
that every agent there's all these
different kinds of agents and his take
is every agent that will win is going to
be a coding agent that builds the thing
it needs versus like it's come it has
like certain number of capabilities.
Open class is such a good example. It's
just like I will build a skill for
myself and now I know how to do this
thing.
>> Yes, all agents are also like if you
look at all the harnesses whether it's
the open source ones or the ones from
the model companies uh ours as well uh
they all resemble a coding agent. I'm
going to come back to the ROI piece. I
think this is really interesting as you
said there's just like okay we're going
to spend spend spend just see what
happens learn accelerate lean into all
this stuff you're uh saying that in
maybe 6 months something like that you
think a lot of companies are going to
start really looking at the cost here
what do you I know you said you don't
like to predict things but what do you
predict is going to start happening I
probably spend too much time than I
should because I have literally zero
impact on any of this as sort of how it
plays out but you can imagine a world
where the labs the delta between the
labs and open weight models and so on uh
widens. That is a world that I very much
don't like because I I hate
centralization of power. Um but in that
world
uh I think the labs just kind of get to
decide uh what the world looks like. I
think if that gap doesn't widen then you
will just see a diffusion and people
will get very comfortable running their
own models rlinging their own models
right like you see this with cursor you
see this with intercom notion is uh
dabbling in it as well he's dabbling
right now but uh obviously at some point
we might become more serious about it
and then you have like it's not going it
may not be the frontier but for a lot of
tasks it'll be good enough and so I
think in that case that is just an ROI
calculation that is the is it cheaper
for me to send this task to a smaller
model that is cheaper to run where I
remove the lab sort of profit margin
kind of thing. I think that may happen
but it only happens if there isn't a
fast sort of like you know oh yeah the
gap is now so big. The other one is
that's interesting is right now I think
we're actually in a one of the luckiest
possible timelines which is we have at
least in the US three competent labs
that are all sort of duking it out at
the and like who knows maybe meta now.
So four maybe we can make it six at some
point. I think like I would love a world
where we have like a dozen sort of
frontier models in the US versus having
to always rely on on on um uh other
places in the world to do this. Uh but
like that's sort of pretty good. If that
choose stopped I would be somewhat
worried. Um uh and then it's hard to
predict right like what would happen. Uh
but if that doesn't then I think it's
going to look similar to the cloud wars
which is some point layers commoditize.
Businesses are not going to want to lock
in into one single provider. uh I don't
know in a past life I worked at Heroku
and like Kubernetes was much more
successful than than Heroku even though
I think from a user experience
perspective it was much worse but the
delta was Heroku was saying hey we're
going to uh uh replace your ops team and
Kubernetes was we're going to make your
ops team superheroes and also we're not
going to lock you into a cloud you can
choose and obviously that's what
businesses want right like businesses
want uh choice and so I don't know it
it's really hard to predict because It
depends. So, it's so as asymmetric in
terms of model progress.
>> When you say the products that win often
are the ones that make you feel like
superheroes, I always think about Kathy
Sierra. Do you remember that at all as
the thing?
>> Uh, it rings a bell. Okay. This just
like it's like from from the olden days
at this point. Shows how old I am. She
was just something that really stuck
with me and I think it's informed a lot
of how people think about product at
least in the past is just her whole
pitch was uh instead of making talking
about your product and how amazing it
is, it's about we will make you a
superhero. Like it's like Mario getting
the little flower and having superpowers
now versus look at our incredible
product. Uh I think it's actually a
thing that uh the coding companies had
to learn when they tried to move to like
why do code review tools automatic code
review tools not work that well? I think
this is actually a subtle thing which is
you push your code publicly to or
publicly within your organization or
your team and then a thing roasts your
code and tells you how terrible of a
developer you are versus if you think
about what claude code and codeex does
is you're coding and then you publish
the work of you plus Claude and you get
bragging rights of how good of a
developer you are, right? And so I think
the superhero stuff is is definitely
true. Speaking of superhero, I wasn't
planning to talk about this, but I've
been hearing a lot about how much people
love your agent, the notion AI agent
that you all released. Just like it's
just coming up a lot of just like, wow,
this is actually really useful with like
a lot of different people. It'd be
interesting to hear what you think made
it so successful. I know it was like a
long time before you guys launched it.
Just like what do you think is helping
it be this useful and successful as a
product out in the world? I would like
it to be even better. So, I I'm like my
own worst critic, I guess. Uh I've spent
most of my day thinking about where it
falls short, not how great it is. But I
agree with you that um I'm actually
surprised at how
this sounds so weird. I'm surprised how
good it is, if that makes sense. Um
Notion has always been fairly at the
forefront of AI. Like I think the first
notion assistant was actually launched
before Chat GPT. And so it's not that
like I think both Ivan and uh Simon had
the intuition of hey this is going to
change a lot of things and so that's a
huge sort of reason why but there every
company wants to become AI native now
whatever that means I it's kind of like
cloud native I'm like if you have to say
it then are you really do you have a
chance but uh I'm surprised how fast
that happened for notion and I I'll take
almost no credit in this um I think
what's good about it is agents need
context to operate
agents don't really like walls of like
oh I I have to go through this narrow
orifice to talk to this other data
repository and um I think for the first
time it is kind of obvious to people why
a connected workspace is actually
valuable because it's great I can have
agents roam around and do that and it
touches on malleable software I think I
think of notion as an operating system
more so and then in that case it
resembles the environment that coding
agents are in with Unix much more than
one might maybe intuitively think. So I
think those all contribute and then
sometimes it's just we're just dumb
enough to try hard things. Uh and so I
think our enterprise search is sort of
like this this thing where we do a lot
of automatic permission handling and so
on that others don't. Uh I don't know
it's it's you have to care. I'm going to
come back to my quote from the Bible. I
feel like that actually is an answer to
this question that it was made for such
a time as this. the fact that notion
basically has all the things about
everything in your company is the
perfect source of context for using AI
and helping you work. So, it's just like
just being around long enough for Wow.
Okay, this is exactly what we've been
meant to be.
>> It's nice job. Nice job.
>> It's the same as uh malleable software,
right? Like I I love that people are
waking up to malleable software now, but
it's been around for a long time. It was
just always slightly too hard and
slightly too like why would I do this?
And so I think yeah I like I'm going to
use this quote from the Bible. Thank
you.
>> There it is. It's like shorter. The
original quote is for such a time as
this and interpretation is this. You're
like destined to do this thing. This is
very Bible heavy episode. Oh man. Um
going back to the way your team operates
because I think this is something that a
lot of people are thinking about right
now. There's all this talk of
productivity pace getting things out
like Anthropics launching a a massive
product every day. Basically,
your job is at a product, help people
ship consistently, regularly, often,
ship great stuff. What has worked in
allowing you guys to ship more quickly
if you are and and stuff that you're
proud of, stuff that works? I think this
answer is so specific to companies like
internal culture where if you I've I've
been at this in this situation sort of
twice in my career. one is uh when I
joined GitHub which is obviously I think
I don't know insane product market fit
uh it just so happened that at the time
that I had joined there was a little bit
of a I don't know identity crisis or
like oh what's our next act what do we
do and like lots of debates about what
to ship because it's such a tough act to
follow if your first act was just
incredible right and I don't know I
would put notion in the same bucket and
so a lot in this case it's just like
reminding people that hey you can just
do stuff we don't have to be that
precious. I think there's this
preciousness that develops over time.
It's like, oh, what do we do? And our
users are going to be upset. Well, our
users are going to be upset if we don't
innovate more so than if we accidentally
break a thing. So, it's obviously a
balance. Um, but I think just reminding
people that the same group of people
that was able to do the first act is
very likely going to be able to do the
second one, but you have to try. Shots
on goal is a thing that we say
internally a lot, which is like great,
how do you increase shots on goal? which
of course if if we go back to it's
easier to experiment now you're
increasing the shots of goal on goal
right um so I think that has worked
really well just shipping feature after
feature doesn't I we have been a little
bit on a roll in terms of shipping new
functionality maybe in the last like I
don't know 6 months or so but at the end
of the day feature count is the same
silly metric as lines of code or tokens
consumed or whatever um I would rather
have fewer features
that are really really good and where
the combinatorics let you do everything.
And so I think something that I'm still
very much uh struggling with is software
quality. And I will also say I don't
think the labs are exempt from this. Uh
like I I love their tools. It's great.
like I love I live in the CLI but a
regression like every two weeks of like
a thing that was fixed like three weeks
before and they still can't render a TUI
at I don't know a frame rate that's ex
reasonable and so I think yeah quality
is a thing that's missing like this
Appleesque machined unibody aluminum
kind of engineering I I I would like us
to to figure out how to get back to that
as an industry. Is there something
you've done to help improve that? So,
there's code quality and then there's
actual software quality. If you're
shipping, you know, shots on goal,
there's always this balance of, okay,
but wait for it to be awesome. I know
this is just like very hard question to
answer, but just how do you what's your
kind of communication to the team of
here's how we're going to here's where
we're going to find that balance? And
this is a very frustrating thing for
people, but uh I actually I can't show
you because I'm using my laptop, but we
have a obviously good stickers, which is
let's just only make obviously good
stuff.
the origin, which is like, okay, wait,
what does that mean? And I'm like, ah,
you know it when you see it. Like, I
don't think anyone argued when they saw
the first iPhone that it's obviously
good. I don't think anyone argued that
when Chat GPT first came out that it's
obviously good. And so, I think that's
the bar, like just make obviously good
stuff. I think the mistake that maybe a
lot of companies then make is great,
we're going to be in this cave in
isolation until we have it sort of be
obviously good. Um, one of my core
values is incremental correctness, which
is sort of, uh, iterate, get really,
really good at iterating. And so, uh, I
don't know, it's probably a union of,
okay, increase shots on goal. Like,
here's a great example. We get roasted
from our customers all the time, which I
love about we have like six automation
primitives inside of notion, right? Like
if you include all the agents and so on.
I'm like, yep, we let like a bunch of
sort of different ideas sort of grow. we
look at how they work, but then you do
have to do the hard work at
consolidating it back into like the the
naked robotic core of that idea and
that's hard, right? Because you have to
sort of be okay with perhaps then
shipping the next thing slightly delayed
as you reconcile. Um I don't know. I
think we have work to do there like at
notion but um at an as an industry too
like somebody was joking like why does
claude the desktop app have three tabs
of co-work and I don't know what the
first chat or whatever um why do we have
six automation primitives well because
someone has to sit down and reconcile
them and like figure out what's actually
the core simple thing that should
outlive the other uh sort of
evolutionary branches uh of that same
idea. this idea of knowing when things
are obviously good. There's a element of
having taste and there's this word taste
that comes up a lot now and this is like
what we will need more and more because
AI is building the thing now our job is
taste is this great is this good I feel
like you're someone that has really
great taste a question people always ask
how do I build taste do I have taste do
you have any advice for someone that's
like I want to develop my taste I first
I don't know if I have great taste like
I I I look at others and I look at how
they exercise taste and I think that The
common thing I think is
iterations with feedback.
So it takes a really long time to build
up taste in a specific domain. Then you
maybe often can extrapolate into other
domains with that taste. But if I had to
describe what taste actually means, it's
you're able to run, this is such a nerdy
way of describing it. You're able to run
a virtual machine in your head where
given an idea, you can predict for a
certain inroup whether they're going to
like it or not. Right? Um the extremes
are is if you are the only person on the
planet that thinks something is good, is
it good? No. But maybe you also don't
need to build a product for 8 billion
people. I've never built consumer
software. I I would probably be terrible
at it. But you decide what your in-group
is and then how good do you get at
emulating
uh how they will react to it. And
to do that you just have to do reps.
It's almost like training a model which
is also why I'm not super you know the
whole um the one thing that we have left
is is taste. I'm not so sure. Like I if
you think about the loop it's input
idea. How do people react? That seems
very uh back propagation. I don't know
like it seems very much how we train
models too.
>> So I what I love that it's basically you
built taste by just doing the thing
getting feedback iterating.
>> Look at Japan like Japanese crafts
people right they've just been I don't
know painting the bowl for however long
uh and it just takes a while and so I
think the more reps they the increase
the frequency of reps that's that's what
I would say. It's so funny. That's
exactly how um you know agents learn and
and develop how how as you said a models
learn just like doing the thing seeing
was this good was this correct no okay
learn. So it's just yeah it's just doing
the thing learning getting feedback and
there's no way to uh speedrun this. This
is why often people with the best taste
have been doing this for a long time.
The one thing I will say that I've
noticed is specifically for designers,
the designers that I think have at least
in software design high taste are the
ones that both have side projects that
they build where they're responsible of
the full thing in end and they're also
always tinkering with some new app. Like
they're the annoying person that is
like, "Hey, what if we tried this in our
team?" I'm like, "Really? This is the
49th time that you suggested a new tool.
Do we really need this?" It's exposure
to other people's ideas. I I think that
is the u it's also really important to
surround yourself with tasteful things
so that you feel like the thing you're
making is lacking, right? Like one of
the things we do at Notion is uh all of
our conference rooms are named after uh
famous objects like the first
typewriter, the Macintosh, a Porsche 911
and so on. And so inevitably when I'm
sitting in one of the rooms and I pay
attention to the room like nothing I'm
doing amounts to this like uh I got to
do better. You've built so many
successful great loved products.
What do you think matters in the end to
building a successful product? If you
had to just kind of boil it down.
>> Yes. Here's the one trick that I'll sell
a course next week.
>> Um please I'll sign First of all, I
think I would actually say that I have
contributed to some really great
products, not built them. Because I
think uh I did not I think I did not
used to believe this early on in my
career, but like the longer I'm in this,
the more I care about what's the team
that's building the thing. I used to
think that was such like a I don't know,
not important thing. Uh and now I'm
like, it's the only thing. Um, I don't
think that there is a through line out
of the things that I've contributed to
where I can pinpoint it. Um, I think
that you can't say that the best design
always wins. I think there's many
products where just design doesn't
matter and like I think then as a
designer you can have this identity
crisis of like why am I doing this? I
think you can't even say that the way
it's built always like the best
engineering always wins.
Uh I think one of the biggest pitfalls
is if you get into the loop of if I just
add one more thing to the product it'll
be finally great. Like if I really look
at the the truly great products they all
have one tiny core that is so
exceptionally good. And uh that is both
a combination of you stumbled upon it by
luck uh and then the market agreed but I
think it's the what's the tiny core? I
don't know multi-touch on the phone. uh
GitHub is probably the poll request,
right? Like this idea that anyone can
suggest something to you and and sort of
you see it. Um I do think that at notion
it's the blocks and like the slash
commands like uh Figma. It's sort of the
seamless blend between uh uh real-time
collaboration and and and and not like
all the great products have something
tiny that is a superpower. Like that's
sort of like uh uh versus oh yeah if we
have this suite of things and like we
add one more thing it'll finally be
useful that never works
>> and for GitHub interesting it was the PR
um other examples of that at other
places you worked because this is really
interesting just like what's the tiny
core that makes everything else work? Um
at Heroku for sure I think it was the
the git push Heroku master of like uh at
the time it was really hard to deploy
apps right like this is like nobody it's
sad because people don't remember Heroku
they but like I have to explain it as
it's the versel it's the first versel
>> did it get bought by Salesforce who
>> yes yeah
>> okay
>> um yeah get push master was just like
this very simple oneliner that went from
the thing on my computer now I have a
URL and that's so intoxicating that
everything else sort of flows from
there.
>> Uh, Dropbox is a great one, right? Like
I think Dropbox is like such an
interesting study where it was the
little menu bar icon that was so good at
syncing that you could even use it as a
symbol for do I have internet or not
because it was better at figuring out
whether you had an internet connection
than your Mac itself. And it was it just
that's the job. Get out of the way and
just all my files are always there. And
then for years they tried to increase
the surface area and I kept thinking no
no no no push it back. I don't want more
like this is the only job I want from
you. Right. And so I think the tiny core
like is is is the thing that makes great
products.
>> And Snapchat obviously just like the
disappearing photo concept is so
interesting. I hear I heard you've also
talk about just like being first doesn't
matter that much either.
>> You have to be right. Not first. Uh I
don't know. Like I think um uh I mean
there are probably there are elements of
like if you talk about network effects
and like perhaps now with like training
models it does make sense if you have
sort of a a a head start but I think
it's overrated. Um I don't know like my
favorite example is like Bluetooth
headphones were kind of crappy and then
you have the AirPods and like oh they
connect and so on and they weren't the
first like I don't know they weren't the
first MP3 player they weren't the f like
you just got to do it right. Uh, I don't
think being first is all that that
useful. I think we're currently because
it's so hard to keep people's attention.
We try to like we're like, "Oh, how do I
become how how do I go viral, right? How
do I do the Clo thing?" And I'm like,
"Yep, I don't durability matters,
right?" Like, uh, think of how would you
build IKEA like a generational company
that is not concerning itself with
whatever is trending on Twitter today. I
think speaking of models, a good example
is Anthropic, which was way behind,
started after OpenAI, got less funding,
and now is just killing it and
dominating. And
>> the thing that I find the most
impressive about uh I don't know who to
give credit, but like obviously you give
the CEO a bunch of credit, but like
Dario is that he wasn't Oh, he wasn't
just lucky once at OpenAI. He did the
same thing twice and it was successful
twice. And like I think that's like
that's actually really cool. I know
you're also a believer in jobs to be
done as a way of thinking about product
which is kind of this it's been a long
time controversial topic on this podcast
mostly because of Shiram who's very
anti- jobs to be done. Uh what's your
kind of framing of how you find this
framework useful in thinking about
product?
>> I bet that if I read reread all of the
Clayton Christensen stuff I would also
not identify super strongly with it. I
use it mostly as have you thought
holistically about what the user wants
to hire your product for and are you
honest about what the user wants versus
what you want the user to want. And then
the other thing that I find happens very
frequently in larger organizations is
that people sort of turn off the brain
when they're reviewing their own
products uh from a I'm a user. Is this a
good experience? And they're more like
I'm a employee of this company and I
made a thing. And so I think jobs to be
done might encourage people to zoom out
and sort of not get lost in the the
sauce of like making the thing. That's
why I like the framework. It's a good
reminder of like no no no the user hires
you for a thing.
Be that user for a second. Would you
even buy the thing that you just made?
And the answer often is like oh uh I
hadn't thought about that. Right? Like
and so that's that's how I use Is there
an example of this from some of the
products you worked on just to make this
real for people other than like
milkshake example? Obviously,
>> there's a very recent one which is more
about communication. We're launching a
new feature soon and we're working on
this landing page to describe the
feature. And I found that when people
make landing pages, first of all, their
writing skills just like deteriorate
immediately because they want to sound
clever and like marketing speak comes
out of their mouth. And I'm like, wait,
that's not how you would explain it to a
friend. And then if I'm communicating
this product to you, just pretend you're
standing in front of a whiteboard.
What's the manic thing that you're
drawing on the whiteboard to to to to
communicate this versus, okay, now go
back to the thing you just designed,
look at it. Are you telling me that
those are the same thing? Are you
telling me that you understand what this
thing does and like that zoom out? So, I
don't know. Um, yeah, I don't know. I
don't want to pick on on individual uh
recent things, though.
>> Okay. Uh, as we close out this
conversation, there's something I want
to get your you have this hot take on on
universal basic income. This completely
out of the blue, but I think it's
interesting to hear. There's this idea
that, you know, with AI emerging, we may
not need to work. We'll all just get
some UBI and enjoy our life. And you
have this uh hot take that maybe we
already have universal basic income.
What's what's going on?
>> Yeah. So please extend me some grace
here because I both mean it as a joke
and maybe somewhat real like just
depends on which altitude of human
nature you look at. Um my my take is
that we already have universal basic
income. It's called knowledge work. Uh
and I don't exclude my job from it. But
if you really look about at what do we
actually need to live and like to be
content, it is a lot less. and we've
built this hierarchy and this sort of
all these jobs and all these things that
are absolutely necessary. Uh and so to
to me it's like yeah, we already have
it. It's UBI and we'll come up with
other ways in which we as humans because
we're the most important species in the
universe insert ourselves into the
conversation around agents. Um will it
look the same? I don't know. But uh
yeah, I don't know. We are so inventive
and we come up with new reasons of why
we absolutely must be in that loop. Um,
and so I think that's my my my hot take.
>> People have always joked like we get
paid so much just to sit in front of a
computer and put the right sorts of
words and letters into the into this
thing and we get paid a lot of money to
do it and now it's like oh maybe I
won't be paid this much in the future
because AI is going to be taken over and
so your take there is just like this a
pretty sweet gig we already got. Enjoy
enjoy the CBI. Yes. I I think I think
all things considered how lucky are we?
Like I don't know. I'm sitting in an air
conditioned room right now talking to
you, having a good time. Uh I don't know
like yeah I just to be clear not
everybody has that luck but I think
that's the folks that I find discussing
this the most are the ones that are in
the bucket of luck. Say we have AGI you
don't have to work you could just do
anything. What would you be spending
your time doing?
>> I actually ask this to almost everybody
that we hire. Um
I would be doing the exact same thing.
Uh I would uh probably spend less time
um having meetings and managing. One of
the sad things about my job is that uh I
have yet to replace uh 80% of it with
agentic loops. Um uh I I I envy our
engineers and designers who get to to do
this. So um hopefully at some point I
won't like I won't have a job. Uh um but
yeah, I would do the same thing. I think
I am someone who I don't code because of
a utility. I code because it's also an
intellectual challenge. So I think of it
as playing chess and go. Um I'm very sad
that Lee Sodel uh after losing against I
think I I don't know if it's alpha go or
zero but one of the two sort of like it
seems like he gave up on go and I'm like
who cares if some machine is better at
it like uh it's the human stuff like
just you know keep going at it. And so I
think I would do the same thing. I would
tinker. I would build stuff. Uh I would
try and make the world around me more
malleable. I just got an email this
morning from someone who asked me about,
oh, you think a lot about malleable
software. Have you ever thought about
what robotics might do? And it just blew
my mind because I had not because it's
so far from the skills that I have.
>> Uh, but yeah, I don't know, something
like that. Just I would do the same
thing.
>> Amazing. Okay, I'm going to take us to
two recurring corners of the podcast to
see what we find there. Uh, the first
corner is contrarian corner. Is there
something that you have a you have a lot
of these already. I'm curious if there's
anything else. Is there something you
have a contrarian opinion about?
Something you believe that a lot of
people don't? It's becoming so hard to
have contrarian views because I think
the algorithms just uh try and get
contrarian views out of people sort of
you know at like a insane uh with an
insane force. um depending on the era uh
like this may not be contrarian but I
think that inclusivity isn't always all
that great um um I think I I very much
believe in small group theory like I
think the world is run by group chats of
eight people or fewer uh and so
sometimes it's great to be exclusive and
what I mean by that is I even think
about this in terms of notion notion
could have the ambition to say we are
going to have 8 billion users so every
single person on the planet use this
notion. And I think if we did that, we
would very much upset
the first call it 500 million because uh
the top of the class wants different
things than everybody and everybody is
in the top of the class at something.
And so I think being okay with being
exclusive sometimes is
is okay. Um, I I will have to caveat
this with if you are if you're
McDonald's and you have exclusive hiring
practices and it's the only job in a
location, that is not what I'm talking
about. But like going back to comfy air
conditioned like job kind of thing. It's
like great, just work with and for the
top of the class is sometimes a winning
winning thing and just build a really
really good product for them which by
definition means you're going to exclude
others. The TBPN guys have a really good
way of describing this exact concept
which is you know they had like I don't
know 8,000 listeners and like a
conversation they got acquired for
hundreds of millions of dollars just
like what's going on there and the way
they pitch it is you know like if we
have if we have millions of people
listening to this thing this we've done
something wrong. This is specifically
designed for like the people and power
of tech to influence them to teach them
what's going on. Um and it worked out it
worked out great for them. So it's
exactly what you're describing. Okay,
I'm going to take us now to fail corner.
So you people like you come on this
podcast, they're like, "Okay, look at
all these wonderful things he's done.
He's just killing it all the time.
Everything's working." In reality, I'm
sure not everything has worked in your
the course of your career. What's one
one example where things didn't work out
and what did you learn from that
experience?
>> Oh my god, like this is a it's such a
weird I don't think about win versus
fail. I kind of feel like every day I
fail a lot.
Uh what are big ones that annoy me
culturally? I think like sort of in
running teams I think a mistake that I
made is at some point because hiring at
this now it's easy but at the time
hiring designers that can code was was
quite challenging and so then if you
loosen that requirement I did not sort
of predict how quickly that becomes like
a slippery slope and I would rather have
had fewer designers that are more
polymath. Um, so I think that's one on
organizational side on product. Oh my
god. I mean, GitHub actions and their uh
the um uh I don't know like it's very
technical, but the fact that we also
thought we didn't need good package
management for the actions like I I
don't know. I think the world would be
better off if we had thought about that
slightly harder. This is maybe like I I
I had a started a a competitor to notion
in 2014 and uh I didn't think of it as
in fact it wasn't a competitor of notion
because the week that we were going to
get a term sheet from True Ventures,
Notion pivoted from website building to
document collaboration and so True
Ventures was like hey sorry we have a
conflict and we're like yep no worries.
Um, and
we spent so much time polishing the
editing experience. We did markdown
folding, all the stuff that you now have
in Obsidian. Like we sort of did that
back in 2014. And we thought that's the
thing that really matters. And then
Notion by comparison, the first version
of the Notion editor was terrible. Like
there was like no, it was all blocks.
You couldn't even select between two
blocks. But it turns out it didn't
matter. And so I think that is like just
working diligently on the wrong thing
for way too long. Huge fail.
>> That's so interesting. Just coming back
to your insight of when a product works,
there's just this tiny core thing that
is the thing that makes it amazing and
what people want to come back to no
matter how bad everything else is. Uh I
think that's a really interesting
takeaway. We actually kept adding new
feature. At some point you go down the
death spiral. So we kept adding yet
another feature of like okay is it good
now? Is it good now? Uh, and it's just,
you know, nope. The core wasn't good.
>> That's interesting. And is in your
experience, you can tell pretty quickly,
okay, wow, this is really taking off. We
we found something really powerful here.
>> I think you can tell. I think you could.
Yeah, I think it's the the obviously
good thing. I think you're like, yep, I
this is good. And then it may be good in
a way that you give it to users and
every single user study that you do or
whatever like just it falls flat and
they don't know how to use it. I think
the important thing is actually to not
give up on the core idea. And so it's
that's 80% but then the 20% is like
relentlessly iterate until it actually
clicks with with the folks that you're
the that you're working for.
>> Max, is there anything else that you
wanted to share with folks? Anything
else you want to leave listeners with
before we get to our very exciting
lightning round? when I talk to like
young I it's so funny to say that but
like when younger people in in Silicon
Valley um right now I think that Silicon
Valley is uncharacteristically full of
people who don't actually love
computers. What I mean by that is like
it's like sort of like oh I want to make
money and of course everybody does I
like making money too. I think there is
this idea of this is the last train or
like what do we call like the permanent
underclass kind of stuff and it it is so
detrimental to thinking about how you
want to spend your heartbeats in life
and so I don't know except like the
advice I would give is like just don't
let the rush or the f frenzy sort of
distract you from the things that you
actually care about and are passionate
in life, I think it'll find a way. And
that is not to mean that you shouldn't
work hard. I think you're actually way
better off if you work incredibly hard
by until from like 18 to 25 or whatever.
Like that's the way to go. Like you
should work a lot, right? And then later
you can work a little less. But um so
it's more about the frenetic nature like
you're so so worried that if you if you
don't win, if you don't like take that
last train out like you're going to be
screwed. And I just it doesn't seem
right to me. And I think it seems like a
very hollow way of leading life. So I
would encourage people to to zoom out
and and not think about it that way.
Read history. Read computer science
history. Maybe it's easy to hear that
and feel like, okay, I'll be all right.
I'm just going to work on things that
I'm excited about and and then like,
okay, but how will I actually have a job
in the future? I love the sentiment like
don't be so stressed about missing out
on things and being in the permanent
underclass. anything there that you
think is important for people to do
while not being overly stressed and
worried about missing that train?
>> I think I don't think I don't I don't
know if it's Chris Rock, but like
there's a comedian that has this joke
that is like it's great to follow your
passion and then he has this pause and
like if it pays u and so obviously there
is a little bit to that. I'm not
suggesting that um you don't worry about
this uh at all. I think it's more that
just tune down the amplitude of how much
worry there is and then just sort of
realizing that history repeats itself
more so than it is completely novel and
new. Uh and then of course yeah if you
tie it to agency and if you're not so
stuck in oh I need certainty of how the
world is going to unfold you're probably
going to be fine. And in the extreme
this is the other side of things which
is often if I then talk to people who
are like yeah but you know everything's
going to change like okay great. So, how
is a move that you are going to make
really going to shield you from it? And
do you want to live in a society where
all of this like I don't know like it
just seems so insular that mindset. With
that, we have reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. Are you ready?
>> Uh, sure.
What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> It depends on the person. Uh I would say
so code
uh by uh Charles Pzled which is uh the
secret language of hardware and
software. It basically it's like do you
know how computers actually work? Uh it
is actually surprising to me how many
professionally employed programmers
don't know how computers work. Um that
one the funny thing is it does not have
a line of code in it until like chapter
27. Uh so exceptionally good book. Um I
have a
weird one uh which is tools of
conviviiality by Ivan Illich. It's sort
of the contrast between like you look at
the history of technology and tools that
let users exercise human ingenuity and
autonomy versus tools that are more at
industrial scale that almost um uh have
become destructive to to human autonomy.
Uh and then the last one that I give
mostly to executives uh that I think are
creating a lot of systems uh is uh
seeing like a state uh which I think
there is a famous stack overflow that
sort of um popularized this but it's the
idea of are you actually just designing
a system so that you have legibility but
the system the way that you've created
that legibility completely neglects the
reality of the system on the And so I
think of it as great you you're the
executive and you have these status
reports and you think you know exactly
how your teams work. If you actually
spend time with the teams you would
realize that none of that is actually
true. And so I think for for like
executives love creating fake legibility
for themselves because we don't like
noise as humans right we want the signal
but there's often less signal in it than
you than than one might think. So
>> favorite recent movie or TV show that
you have recently enjoyed? Uh, I have
purposeful terrible taste in movies,
which is I want to watch movies that I
never think about again after watching
them. Um, and I just want to be
entertained and I mostly just want to
see things that I couldn't remotely
experience in in real life. So, you
should not ask me for for movie
recommendations. I did like uh uh
Project Hail Mary uh a lot. I liked the
book and I think the adaptation was was
was really good. I think it also makes
me super excited about any kind of
future of humanity which is I sometimes
joke to uh our teams internally which is
like okay if we're really really good at
some point in notion OS will be the
thing that empowers like five to to to
eight people like explore the galaxy
somehow and everything will be organized
for them in notion. I don't know like I
like this idea of of sort of pushing
into space. Uh TV show I'm late to this
the Handmaid's Tale. If you replace the
concept of God with AI in that TV show
and then you don't actually have to
squint that far to replace ice with ice
in that TV show right now. It becomes a
very um uh I don't know a heavy show to
watch in a good way.
>> Wow. I had not thought about that. Uh
under his eye. Was that one of the
things? Yeah.
>> Under his AI.
>> Whoa. Oh, no. Okay. I'm afraid I used to
watch it. I'm more afraid to watch it
now. Okay. Uh, favorite product you've
recently discovered that you really
love. I know you put together a list of
beautiful products that that people buy.
Uh, what's something recent? Well, that
list that I put together was for
products that I think people should buy,
I think, or that I thought I actually
did the taste emulation. I'm like, "Oh,
I think a lot of people are going to
find this useful." Uh I have weird ones
now for you which is
>> Yes.
>> Uh okay so this is not a you can just
it's a product it's great. It's Ghosty
terminal emulator. Like most people use
terrible terminals. Don't do that to
yourself. Just use Ghosty. Huge fan of
the work that uh Mitchell is doing. Uh
and then there is a new one for the
phone called Moshi. M O S HI. That one's
not free but it looks very well done.
I'm like currently exploring it. I
mostly code on the phone now um because
I don't have a real job. Uh there is an
open source keyboard called uh I don't
even know how to say it. Corny. C O R N
E which is a split keyboard. It looks
very weird. The reason I like that one
is I'm trying to claw back as much
agency in my compute life as possible.
This one is very open source. If you
really wanted to, you could like
download all the schematics, send them
off to China, and you have the PCB back
and like you can just build it from
scratch. Um and then
this one's silly, but uh I like tools. I
like physical tools. A Cevivi pocket
knife, uh, which is pretty high quality,
maybe more expensive than what most
people would spend on a pocket knife,
but I think a good pocket knife is is is
a good tool to have.
>> These are awesome. Very, very legit
products. Okay, we'll link to them all.
Uh, two more questions. You have
favorite life motto that you find
yourself coming back to in work or in
life?
>> It is very hard to remind yourself of
that day-to-day. Uh, but I try to. The
universe is change and life is what you
make it. Um, I think we love to cling to
certainty. Uh, and there is no
certainty, you know. Um, I could walk
out of this room and could be the end of
my life and like live in the moment kind
of thing. Um, and life is what you make
it sort of I think it's a Marcus
Aurelius quote I believe. Uh, but
>> um, yeah I I And then um, do you really
want to know how it's going to end? Like
no spoilers just like you know enjoy the
ride. Final question. You speak German.
Do you have a favorite German word? Uh I
do uh tuftla which is uh like tinker
but it's to me it sounds like it has a
less tinker can sometimes be a little
bit derogatory and I think with the
German equivalent it's just not uh that
harsh and then the other one is uh faba
which is the word for user but it puts
so much more emphasize on using up a
Like as in if you think about user is
like you're using it but using it up
like you've you've you and so then like
you think a lot more about the um
impermanence slash the wastefulness of
products that you might build uh if you
use that word.
>> I love it. I love that you had quick
answers to this question. Max, this was
amazing. Thank you so much for doing
this. Two final questions. Where can
folks find you online if they want to
ping you about anything? And how can
listeners be useful to you? I am
unfortunately on X or Twitter. Um I I
would like to be less addicted to that
thing. Uh max.dev.
Um is I don't even know if I linked to
X, but I'll I'll put it on there for
your listeners. How can listeners be
helpful to me? Go for a walk in whatever
city you're in or forest, wherever you
want to go. Uh actually, no, it's it's
better if it's man-made uh or humanmade.
Um, and just carefully look at how
everything around you is made up by
people that are no smarter than you and
realize that probably in the span of 6
to9 months, you can for most things
around you figure out how to make it
from scratch. And therefore, uh, you
have much more agency than than you
think. And so, just exercise that.
>> What a beautiful way to end it. Max,
thank you so much for being here.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Hi, everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.